Hey everyone.
Welcome back to Boost Your Income
with Bootstrap to WordPress.
This lecture is called Code
the Individual Blog Excerpts.
[SOUND]
[MUSIC]
All right, now what we're gonna do is
clean up this Excerpt section of our blog.
And so basically, the Excerpt section
is basically the blog overview.
When you hit blog page up here and
you get taken to this page, you
get an overview of all the posts with the
excerpts rather than the full post view.
So, if we have five blog posts,
you'd see five small excerpts here and
it would kinda look like this,
what we have in our static site.
You got the excerpts.
So, that's what we're gonna do.
We're gonna make the Excerpt
section look more like
the design here in the static site.
And right now you can see it's pretty
plain, but you can see similarities.
And you can make that
much better like this.
Quite easy.
So head to your code editor and
open up the content.php template.
The content.php template is basically
the blog overview, and it looks like this.
In Wordpress, sometimes if you
haven't used Wordpress before and
you haven't developed a Wordpress site,
you can get a little confused with how
the templates work and which one is which?
You have all these different
content templates like,
Content Single, and you have
the Index page and you have page.php.
Things like that you can
get a little confusing.
And so, the way that I found out,
when I first started out, which page,
I want to edit the excerpt section.
How do I know which template that is?
Well, I went through and
I would select everything, and
I would cut everything out of the page,
and then save it.
So, the template is empty.
And then when I refresh the page to
see if the page turned out empty,
then I knew, hey,
this is the template I need to work with.
So, content.php, there's nothing here.
So, I know content.php is, in fact,
what I need to be working with.
So, I put that back there and
we're going to go ahead and fix this up.
And luckily what's here,
we're gonna be recycling a lot of it, but
it's gonna be quite simple
to get what we need.
So we're just gonna go through from top to
bottom and trim out what we don't need and
replace the parts that we need to
change to make it look like the design.
So up here at the top,
basically right here in the header tag,
we're gonna start out by
changing here in the title.
This is gonna be a level three heading,
not a level one heading.
That's how we have it in our site.
The rest of it in here is fine.
And down here In between the if
post is equal to get post type,
if statement right here,
we're going to remove the entry meta and
replace that with our own content.
So, remove entry meta all together.
Well actually, we can go to our blog.html
static page and copy the markup for that.
And that is just right here.
Post details.
So, grab post details,
copy it, and paste it in here.
Make sure that's lined up properly so
you can see it better,
and we're just gonna go through and
make this dynamic.
And it's quite simple.
So right here, we have the user.
We want this to be the actual
author of the post.
Do that like this.
So, WordPress, function, the author.
That's great.
Then in here, time.
Well, PHP Wordpress
function called the date.
And that is the published
date of the post itself.
And in here, remove all the a tags.
We need to list out the categories
separated by a comma.
You do that pretty easily just by going
PHP WordPress function is the categor.
And you could see here actually,
Coda gives me all
the parameters, or
the arguments, of this function.
So, $separator, $parents, and $post_id.
They're all optional, however
separator's the one that we want to use.
Separator means how do you wanna separate
the categories if there's more than one?
Do you want a comma, a pipe,
a space, dash, things like that?
So, I'm gonna remove all this here,
and I'm just going to in a string,
put a comma and a space and
close that string.
That is the separator.
That's the first argument of
that parameter of that function.
And so that should do that.
Now tags is pretty much the same thing.
I'm gonna remove the tags here and
go PHP and this will be the tags.
And then, the parameters of this
function is a little bit different.
Before is the text or whatever you
want to appear before the tags.
Separator is the how you
wanna separate the tags.
So, the default is a comma, but
you can put one in there or
something different if you'd like.
And after is the text you'd
like to appear after.
Before and after are optional,
they don't display anything by default, so
you don't have to worry about those.
But how you need to display it
if you wanna have the comma or
something specific, you need to do a,
open and close strings, comma.
And then here's where you
want to do your separator.
So, open string comma space,
close the string.
And then, go ahead and
do the same thing for the last comma, and
then close those strings.
Now, if you wanted to just
leave it as the tags,
that should do it just fine,
and separate them by comma.
Down here we have the post comments badge.
What we need to do here is put that badge
up there with the number of comments.
And so, it's pretty straight forward.
For the number,
you just need to say php comments_number.
That is a WordPress function.
And here, let me show you the arguments
here, or the parameters of this function.
You need to have $zero, $one, and $more.
Basically that means, what do you want
to display if there are zero comments?
What do you want to
display if there are one?
And what do you want to display
if there are more than one?
Basically, this means,
if you don't do anything here,
the default Wordpress parameters here
are no comments is what zero would be.
One would be one comment, and
the rest are 30 comments or whatever.
But in our comments bubble or
comments badge, we just want the number.
No text, nothing that says, zero comments,
or no comments, or whatever,
cuz that's gonna break the layout.
We want it to actually just
be straight up numbers.
So this will be 0,1.
And then in a string, a percent sign,
which will basically just pass in whatever
the number of comments there will be.
And then make sure to semicolon and
close that PHP script.
Straight forward, super easy.
Now, I wanna give the option for
people who are logged in, AKA you or
your client, the ability to hit edit
right up here in the Post details.
I wanted to make it easy.
And you could do that.
You can add a little front end section.
So I'm just going to add a div to
give a block level element here.
php_edit_post_link.
And that will give us
the ability to hit Edit, and it
will take us to the actual
post to edit in the editor.
But if i just say edit_post_link and
leave it as,
it's going to have its own default text.
I want to add an icon
that is a little pencil.
And I can just put the icon before here,
but it won't be included in the link.
So if I wanted to include it in the link,
then I need to do something like this.
The first parameter of the edit_post_link
is the text you want to display
instead of the default,
which is Edit or Edit Post or whatever.
But if you want to have your own text,
the first parameter is
what you want it to say.
So I just want it to say Edit.
And then comma, there's a second
parameter and a third parameter.
The second and third are what do you
wanna display before the link and
what do you wanna display after?
You can use this to wrap it in
well like I could have not put
this div here and just put, and that would
probably actually be better actually.
I'm gonna go like this.
Because if you're not logged it,
then I don't just wanna have a div
tag that's empty and sitting there.
So, you'd go like this and
then that, there you go.
And that would put the edit
post link in a div.
But I wanna be able to have that icon,
a pencil icon.
And so all I would do is just just here,
have the i tag and
then have a class with fa fa-pencil,
that'll give me a pencil.
Close that string, save that, and then now
that should give us the edit post link.
Great.
Now if I scroll down to
the entry content down here,
we're just gonna remove all this cuz
we don't need the footer in everything.
Leave the closing article tag.
But we're gonna put our own content here.
Go back to blog.html,
the static version you had, and
grab post image, and also post-excerpt.
And then we're gonna make this dynamic,
paste it down here, line that up.
And then we're gonna start
with the post-image.
Post-image is pretty straightforward,
we're just gonna grab the WordPress
function, the post thumbnail,
thumbnail and there it is.
But some posts don't have thumbnails, so
we need to double check to see
if there is even one uploaded.
Pretty straight forward.
Just an if statement here,
that says if, has post thumbnail.
Great.
And that means if they have
a post thumbnail this is gonna
check for feature image.
And then, that will spit this out.
Make sure to close that PHP bracket,
and then there you go.
If there's a post thumbnail, great,
otherwise this doesn't even exist.
Perfect.
So then in post excerpt, all you really
need to do is just use php the_excerpt,
another built-in WordPress function.
There are no parameters to this function,
and so
the unfortunate thing about this is
if we go to our excerpt here and
hit refresh, you can see all it does
is add square brackets and an ellipses.
That doesn't do very good for us.
There's bad user experience and
you can't really go in to view the post.
Unless you clicked on this of course,
the title.
You can see right here, the rest of it,
before we get into the excerpt,
that everything looks good.
We have our username here.
And this could be changed by yourself,
the user.
So when you go to your User Tab in
the dashboard, you could change it to
your name, your first name, full name,
nickname, so on and so forth.
Right now the default is the username.
The date published,
categories separated by comma text,
separated by comma,
the edit link right here.
And that will take you to edit the posts.
And I have a really long
lorem ipsum post here.
The only thing here is that the excerpt is
not really, you can't really link through.
The way to fix that is
in your functions.php,
you need to just scroll down to
the bottom and add a new function here.
Because the excerpt doesn't
have any additional parameters.
And a quick Google search let me find out
how to change the text of the excerpt and
how to link to the post.
And really I'll show you right here.
Pasted it at the bottom.
So this right here,
function new_excerpt_more,
this is creating a new function.
Or actually,
this is actually a built in function and
it's just updating the filters and
the perameters of this function.
So let's check it out here.
So we've got a global post.
Wanna be able to grab that.
Return and then in a string type this out.
This is putting an ellipsis at the end or
three periods, three dots.
And then a space.
And then we have our A tag.
And then here we have a series of info.
So we have class,
more tag in case you wanted to style it.
Href.
We have our opening double quote and
then single quotes,
so we could concatenate
the get_permalink($post->ID) so
that's gonna get the permalink
of that specific post.
Concatenate, make sure you close that up.
Make sure you're back in here in
the string, the original string.
Space, continue reading the lowercase and
then r i quo.
Close the A tag, and then, that's it.
And then,
all you need to do it add filter.
Excerpt_more is the first parameter,
and then, new_excerpt_more.
So, this is just basically adding
the new_excerpt_more function
to the original excerpt_more
built-in WordPress function.
So that when we hit Refresh,
we don't even have to do anything
on the original page here.
The excerpt will now
always display like this.
So that will take us to, here we go.
And obviously, this doesn't look very good
because we haven't styled this up yet and
we haven't programmed it in PHP yet,
in WordPress.
But let's go in and edit this post and
add a feature image, so
that we can see if it
works in our excerpt.
So feature image,
we're just gonna set this, add my default
feature image in my assets here, and
I'm gonna set that featured image.
Update.
I'm gonna go back to the website and
hit Blog so
I can go to the Blog Excerpt page,
and it's there.
But you can see there's a problem.
The height seems to be gone wonky.
And the way to fix that Is
to head to your CSS for
the theme, and scroll down to your
Blog section here in the CSS.
And down after Post Image,
we need to make sure
that the post image image is height auto.
And I can see here that
I made you do a typo and
this should have actually been post image,
space image, and
then height auto, to make sure to
force those images to be height
auto not a fixed height which
WordPress tags on to those image tags.
Refresh this and
that should solve all of our problems.
There we go and that looks beautiful.
So there we go.
That is the post excerpt section.
Let's just make sure that we're good here
if I add a new post to see if the styles
are also reflected in that and
that there's good margins in between.
Another test post.
Let's get some lorem ipsum in there.
And let's skip out on the feature image.
Found some tags, fake post, coding, cut.
And let's say uncategorized.
And we're gonna go ahead and publish that.
And there we go.
It's at the top,
we've got good space in between.
It looks like our styles have made it,
our edit links here on a new line.
If you don't want it in a new
line you can remove those divs.
So if I'm gonna go back here just
to jump back into my content.php,
let's remove those divs there, like so.
I'm gonna save that, and now our edit
link should be on the same line,
unless it drops down to second line
because the first line is too long.
And actually, I prefer that, so
I'm going to leave it like so.
And that looks good.
And just to make sure you see how this
works, we have our comment badge.
If I click that, What should theoretically
happen is it should take me to
the comment section on the blog post.
And it doesn't seem to do that.
And that's because in our content.php,
we didn't actually specify where that's
gonna link to, we just put an empty link.
So, good thing we checked that out
before we closed up the lecture.
All you gotta do here is in your href,
is go php.
Super easy, wait for it,
comments_link, there it is.
Say that.
Now if you go back and refresh this
Overview page, If you hover over this you
can see another test post, slash,
hashtag or pound comments, and
that will take you to the anchor,
the ID comments on the post itself.
It'll scroll down,
right down to the comments.
So, perfect, there it is.
And in the next lecture we're gonna
be cleaning up and coding this page.
This is the full blog post page.
It's pretty simple, straightforward.
We already did most of
the work in the previous one,
just a lot of copying and pasting.
And yeah, I'll see you there.
[MUSIC]